# 2021/09/14 - Microscope development meeting

## Attendees

Attending:

- David Pinto
- Ian Dobbie
- Julio Mateos-Langerak
- Nicholas Hall

## Notes

* Ian - PiCam, David pointed out the implementation was based on older
  code and would not now work.  He has suggested a fix but not tested
  it.

* David: iChrome laser engine

* David: Thorlabs NanoMax stage: This does not currently work as the
  thorlabs provided library crashes often but in an unpredicatable
  manner.

* Bielefeld: PCO camera support but not merged and not generalised
  just supports the camera they are using.

* David has arranged a loan of a Hamammatsu orca camera to implement
  in Microscope with Rita.

* Cockpit has several issues raised by Danail with code but not push
  to the main branch as yet.  Ian recently installed on an M1 Mac and
  had similar to previous mac openGL graphics issues.

* David raised the issue of project governance and it was agreed that
  we should have a formal governance arrangements for both microsocpe
  and cockpit.  David suggested following the Napari approach with a
  small group who have to ratify significant decisions.  David to
  circulate the Napari model to be discussed and hopefully agreed on
  at next meeting.

* David has discussed microscope as a backend for ImSwitch
  (https://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.03394.pdf) with a
  developer (Xavier).

* It is suggested that we invite a wider audience to attend future
  meetings including ImSwith Bielefeld and other interested parties.

* David wrote napari-microscope which uses napari as a front end to
  the basic microscope GUIs and allows simple snaps from cameras
  etc...

* It was agreed that future meetings will have an agenda to speed
  things up and make sure important topics are covered.
