# 2021/10/12 - Microscope development meeting

## Attendees

Attending:

- Danny
- David
- Ian
- Julio
- Matthew

Apologies:

- Nick
- Rita

## Notes

* Cockpit paper

  Ian will start a responce to the cockpit paper.  Open issues on the
  github repository.

* picam (python-microscope/microscope#167)

  The recently pushed support for picam probably does not work (see
  discussion in #167).  David has separate branch named picam-devel
  which fits with current master but is not tested.  Ian will check
  David's code works


* Hamammatsu

  David and Rita got an Orca Flash from rep and are working on it.
  (python-microscope/microscope#38)

* iChrome MLE - merged

  David and Veronika have merged support for it.
  (python-microscope/microscope#71)

* PCO

  David hopes to find time to do it now that he's in Oxford.
  (python-microscope/microscope#118)

* Vortan Stradus VersaLaser

  Veronika needs it.  David will be working on this with her.
  (python-microscope/microscope#230)

* PVCAM

  Danny working on this. Array order - detection of readout modes.
  Trigger definitions.

* Lumencor

  Danny added ethernet connection in addition to serial.  Will open
  issues for code to be reviewed and merged.

* Clarity

  Microscope and Cockpit.  Danny's new implementation runs processing
  on cockpit machine rather than on microscope machine.

* Settings button for lights in cockpit

  Danny has added it.  Danny will open an issue for it to be reviewed
  and merged.

* Interleaved acquisation (MicronOxford/cockpit#686)

  Danny and iand have been using it.  David has commented on the issue
  that it adds button that do nothing in other experiments.  Ian will
  take a look at the comment and then merge,

* Prior stage

  Initlisation to get motion range move to ends of range breaks
  things.  Danny says that limits are static.  How to home?  David had
  been talking with Prior engineers before leaving.  David will
  forward the email exchanges wit Prior support to Danny who will
  investigate.

* Olympus IX83

  Put on hold for the moment.  It's a big task, and Danny no longer
  has access or the time for it in the next few months.

* Cockpit documentation

  There is hidden features to perform flatfield correction and
  background subtraction in the mosaic.  Similarly there are many
  other hidden features that only Ian knows about.  Ian will try to
  work on documenting things.

* Mosaic realignment

  Ian to check objective offset.

* Cockpit updates

  Covered above

* Governance

  Agreed on following Napari governance model which is mostly about
  reaching consensus with a steering committee.  Steering committee
  with even number of people and different institutions.  These will
  be David, Ian, and Julio.  All present agreed.  Steering committee
  is reviewed in January every year.

  Since we do not use github's pull review interface need a way to
  find issues with proposed patches for review.  This is done in
  Cockpit with tags.  David will setup the tags for Microscope too.

  Part of the reaching consensus is the time period that it takes as
  well as the time period that one should wait to receive feedback.
  We need to define what is a reasonable time period for us.

  This is only about Microscope and is not about Cockpit.

* Open meetings

  Meetings are meant to be open to anyone but they're not announced.
  Ian will set the meet as recurring and we will publish the link in
  the project documentation.  Since meetings are open, the notes will
  also be public.  David will add notes on a new github repo.  For
  now, we will include cockpit notes even though this will be done in
  the python-microscope github org.

* website

  David is hosting it for free from https://www.netlify.com/ We will
  stop redirecting to the Micron website to which we no longer have
  access.

* Next meeting

  Next meeting on 9th of November.
