# Meeting notes microscope-cockpit development meeting 2023-07-11

Attending:

- IMD
- Tom Fish
- Julio
- Mihaela Duta
- David


* Galvo scanner

Started with a discussion of Mihaela plan to implement a galvo scanner
as camera module within Microscope.

Ian started saying that probably this is relatively simple but one
critical factor is the pixel size. The infrastructure has no current
knowledge of any meta data associated with the a camera device except
image bit depth (8, or 16 bit) and a timestamp.

David suggested implementing a meta data dictionary, although exact
contents are to be determined.

Apparently there is already python code that can run the galvo scanner
and return an array of intensity data, this should be quite easy to
interface to as a camera device.


* Documentation for devices

David mentioned that the documentation is rather thin as to what
methods are required for each device class. Ian mentioned that it was
in the abc.py file. David comment that this mixes required and default
implementations of some classes, which is true.


* Timer code

Discussion moved on the the timer issues that crash cockpit on exit in
different ways for different OS's. Ian said he thought that this was
almost entirely fixed with the wx.Timer fixes in the
gui/safeControls.py module. David says not as there is further code in
the base device class addWatch function but no deleteWatch see issue
https://github.com/microscope-cockpit/cockpit/issues/828

There is also an outstanding issue in the lightPower handler with the
_updater thread see issue
https://github.com/microscope-cockpit/cockpit/issues/865

There was some discussion about the multiple timer techniques used and
it was suggested that we replace all variants with the wx.Timer as
closely linked to the safecontrol approach as possible to unify the
solutions.

There are also examples of wx.Timer use in the Aurox and boulderSLM
device code that probably doesn't terminate properly but hard to test
with no hardware available.

* Linkam Stage on Linux

David asked about the Linkham stage on Linux issue that has raised its
head a few times. Apparently there is lots of code that is windows
specific or even only works effectively by chance. The driver seems to
work well on windows but the Linux version has lots of issues.

* Vortran laser and Thorlabs stage

Veronika is having problems with the implementation of the Vortran
laser device and the thorlab stage she has. The thorlab stage had a
serious bug that was fixed but only after months of delay. David
doesn't have time to help her at present.

* Training notebooks

Julio is attending MiFiBio in the Autumn. He is thinking about setting
up training examples in something like docker, or a binder
instance. David shared a link tot he Napari example code to possibly
include in a new training materials github repository.


* Stepper driven stage on Raspberry Pi

Julio has a colleague who is running a stepper motor driven stag via a
raspberry Pi Hat. Ian asked for info about the Hat. In theory this
should be relatively easy to add to microscope.

* ASI stage

Julio also wants to use an ASI RAMM stage that he hope to borrow from
ASI. Ian says that he has a driver that mostly works but has some
weird problems.


* No meeting in August so next meeting Sept 12th


